In this video, we'll extend
what we've done to using other variables in expressions.
Today we've used literal values in our expressions,
and used operators such as in the example we ended up with
on line six, which is 10 plus five in parenthesis
plus two times 10 in parenthesis.
We need to declare two more variables,
and I think it's time for a challenge
to get you to do just that.
So the challenge is to create additional variables,
two in fact.
So we're going to clear
the following variables and add them to our programme.
We want a variable called mySecondNumber which is an int,
and you want to find a value of 12 to that variable.
The second variable to caret is called myThirdNumber,
also of type int and assign a value six to that.
So put the declaration statements
above the system.out.prinln.
And you'll see why later on in the video.
So for now, pause the video,
add the declarations for our two variables to the programme,
and come back and resume when you're ready to move forward.
Pause the video now.
All right, so welcome back.
Let's go ahead and add our two additional variables.
We'll declare two lines there.
Immediately under our first line
and above our System.out.println.
The first one will be int mySecondNumber
is equal to, we want a value of 12 for that.
Semicolon, turn the line, then int myThirdNumber
equals six, semicolon.
All right, I'll just put a return there
just to space out the code.
All right so let's add two additional variables.
Is there a way that we can sum
the values of mySecondNumber
and myThirdNumber into another variable?
Why yes, yes there is.
So instead of using a literal number,
which is all we've really seen so far in the course
for assigning a value to our variables,
let's use a variable name directly in the expression.
And we can do that by typing int, myTotal
is equal to, and let's actually start by typing
myFirstNumber.
Noticing that intellij's help thing is here.
Plus, mySecondNumber,
and the good thing about this is
we're not limited to two parts in this expression.
We can continue, so let's add another one.
Plus myThirdNumber.
I'm gonna add a semicolon to complete the line.
Now if you have the variables or expressions
that you wanted to add,
you could keep going and make this
an extremely complicated expression.
Java will quite happily read that
and convert it and be able to process that.
Right, so the expression now, according to me,
should be myFirstNumber,
and we know that myFirstNumber was 35,
cause we can still see in the output.
MySecondNumber is 12, and MyThirdNumber is six.
So 35 plus 12 is 47, plus six is 53.
Let's try printing that out, but just to note here first,
that note that we're printing out
myFirstNumber and not myTotal.
Now I just wanted to point out there
that if you hover over this one here,
this variable of myTotal,
Intellij helping tells us that it's not in use.
This is a great know to know
of any variables that you've created
or declared and haven't actually used in your programme.
So here it's just telling us it's never been used.
And notice that It's also in a light grey to indicate that.
So what we need to do is change this myFirstNumber,
and I've just double clicked that.
We want to double click any part of that name.
Intellij helpfully highlights the whole thing
so I can just type,
and since I start typing, it gets deleted,
and we've got the variable down on the bottom there.
Total.
Use up or down arrow keys if I want to select it.
And there's the output,
which I this case is my total,
so now if I run this programme,
we should see the value of 53
and there it is 53 shining on the screen.
And just to show you another example,
let's change myThirdNumber,
currently that's defined to be the value six.
Let's change that to be,
instead of six, to be myFirstNumber multiplied by two.
So now what we've done is we've assigned myFirstNumber,
under the value is 35 times two is seventy,
so myThirdNumber has now got a value of 70.
So my total equals 35 plus 12 is 47 plus 70 should be 117.
So let's run this, and confirm that we've got that value.
And there's the result, 117, okay.
Alright, so let's send the video now with a challenge.
So your challenge is to create a new variable
and call it myLastOne,
with the value to be 1000 less the current value of myTotal,
and the data type should also be an int.
And then you want to print out
the value of myLastOne on the line after you declare it.
Now as a hint here, we need to use another operator
that we haven't actually used in the code before,
but if you think about this,
it should be easy to figure out
which operator you need to use for this.
All right, so pause the video.
See if you can complete the challenge,
and when you're ready, come back and resume the video.
Go ahead, I'll wait here.
Pause the video now.
All right, so welcome back.
So hopefully you managed to complete the challenge.
And let's see what we can do here.
What I'm going to do is start after the
System.out.println, and I'm going to type in there int,
myLastOne is equal to.
We need to figure out a thousand less
the current value of myTotal.
We can just type 1000
and use the new operator we haven't specifically used
which is the minus, or subtraction, myTotal.
So we wanted the value of a thousand, minus myTotal,
which is what we've done here.
Semicolon to end the line.
And let's use the Sout template
and then we'll type in myLastOne to print out the value.
Let's run this and we should see one thousand.
Take 187, and if my calculations are correct,
it should be 883.
And there we go.
That's the value of 883.
All right, I just want to end by saying
if you ever get stuck here
and you're finding weird errors,
one of the first things to look at
is it's spelling of a variable name
and the case you use, whether it's up or lowercase.
You'll see later on
that there is a need for things to be in uppercase,
but most of the time, things will be,
the keywords will be in lowercase.
And variables need to be defined exactly how you specify it.
So in other words, like with myLastOne,
I couldn't put a capital N here.
When I tried to print it out, I'm getting an error there
because myLastOne was defined on line 11
as myLastOne with a lowercase m,
and it's using an uppercase M on line 12.
And that's the hint there.
We saw this before,
but we're getting a note here from intellij that
that variable is not being used.
That can often be a good hint
that you made a typo and to go back and actually fix it,
like so.
We'll just run it again to make sure we're good to go.
All right, so that's variables.
Now later on in the course,
we'll be looking at best practises for naming variables
cause there is specific rules we should follow,
but we'll check with that later on in the course.
For now though, we've looked at one data type so far
which is of type int.
In the next video, we'll be looking at some more,
so see you in that next video.